Documentation overhaul (#233)
CS-SI/eodag: docs/getting_started_guide/configure.rst

.. _configure:

Configure EODAG
===============

Configuration in ``eodag`` plays an important role:

* To provide credentials (e.g. login/password, API key, etc.) required to download (and search sometimes) products with a provider
* To specify the search priority of a provider
* To indicate where to download products, whether to extract them or not, etc.

> * To dynamically update a provider or a new one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To update a provider or add a new one
```

* CLI: ``eodag search -b 1 43 2 44 -s 2018-01-01 -e 2018-01-31 -p S2_MSI_L1C``

.. warning::

   This file contains login information in clear text. Make sure you correctly
   configure access rules to it. It should be read/write-able only by the
   current user of eodag.

Environment variable configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``eodag`` can also be configured with environment variables, which have **priority over**
the YAML file configuration.

The name of the environment variables understood by ``eodag`` must follow the pattern
``EODAG__KEY1__KEY2__[...]__KEYN`` (note the double underscore between the keys).

See for instance the following configuration extracted from YAML file:

.. code-block:: yaml

   sobloo:
       download:
           extract: True
           outputs_prefix: /absolute/path/to/a/folder/

The same configuration could be achieved by setting environment variables:

.. code-block:: bash

   export EODAG__SOBLOO__DOWNLOAD__EXTRACT=True
   export EODAG__SOBLOO__DOWNLOAD__OUTPUTS_PREFIX=/absolute/path/to/a/folder/

Each configuration parameter can be set with an environment variable.

CLI configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The commands that require a configuration file (e.g. ``download`` ) have an option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command options that require a configuration file (e.g. ``eodag download`` ) have an argument
```

   highest priority among those which offer this product type.

Download settings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Two useful download parameters can be set by a user:

* ``extract`` indicates whether the downloaded product archive should be automatically
  extracted or not. ``True`` by default.

*  ``outputs_prefix`` indicates the absolute file path to `eodag`'s download folder.
   It is the temporary folder by default (e.g. ``/tmp`` on Linux).

Credentials settings
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Credentials come into play at different stages for a provider. Most do not
require any credentials for a search to be made (a few require an API key).
Most, if not all of them, require credentials to be set to download products.

.. note::

   ``eodag`` tries to fail as early as possible if some credentials are missing to authenticate
   to a provider while trying to download a product. If the credentials are set, ``eodag`` will
   keep going. An :class:`~eodag.utils.exceptions.AuthenticationError` is raised if the
   authentication fails.

   Make sure to check that your credentials are correctly set and to keep them up to date.

Example
^^^^^^^

> The following content can be saved to a file at ``/home/user/eodagworkspace/my_config.yml``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit your configuration file ``$HOME/.config/eodag/eodag.yml`` with the following content:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   sobloo:
       priority: 2
       download:
           extract: False
           outputs_prefix: /home/user/eodagworkspace/
       auth:
           credentials:
               apikey: my_secret_sobloo_api_key

It updates and completes the settings of the provider `sobloo` by:

* Setting its priority to ``2``, which is higher than the default maximum priority (*PEPS* at 1).
  Products will then be searched through `sobloo`'s catalog.

* The products downloaded should not be extracted automatically by ``eodag``.

* The products should be downloaded to the folder ``/home/user/eodagworkspace/``.

* An API key obtained from `sobloo` is saved there, it will be used to authenticate to the provider.

This file can be used to download products with the API:

.. code-block:: python

   from eodag import EODataAccessGateway

>    dag = EODataAccessGateway("/home/user/eodagworkspace/my_config.yml")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   dag = EODataAccessGateway()
```

   products, total_count = dag.search(
      productType="S2_MSI_L1C",
      start="2018-01-01",
      end="2018-01-31",
      geom=(1, 43, 2, 44)
   )
   product_paths = dag.download_all(products)

Or with the CLI:

.. code-block:: console

   cd /home/user/eodagworkspace/

>    eodag search -f my_config.yml \
>                 -b 1 43 2 44 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   eodag search -b 1 43 2 44 \
```
